---
title: "graphTPP: A multivariate based method for interactive graph layout and analysis"
excerpt: "Graph layout is the process of creating a visual representation of a graph through a node-link diagram. Node-attribute graphs have additional data stored on the nodes which describe certain properties of the nodes called attributes."
tags:
  - graph layout
  - targeted projection pursuit
  - adjacency matrix
  - 
categories:
  - chat
  - public
---
Graph layout is the process of creating a visual representation of a graph through a
node-link diagram. Node-attribute graphs have additional data stored on the nodes which
describe certain properties of the nodes called attributes. Typical force-directed
representations often produce hairball-like structures that neither aid in understanding
the graph’s topology nor the relationship to its attributes. The aim of this research
was to investigate the use of node-attributes for graph layout in order to improve the
analysis process and to give further insight into the graph over purely topological
layouts. In this article we present graphTPP, a graph based extension to targeted
projection pursuit (TPP) &mdash; an interactive, linear, dimension reduction technique &mdash; as a
method for graph layout and subsequent further analysis. TPP allows users to control the
projection and is optimised for clustering. Three case studies were conducted in the
areas of influence graphs, network security, and citation networks. In each case
graphTPP was shown to outperform standard force-directed techniques and even other
dimension reduction methods in terms of clarity of clustered structure in the layout,
the association between the structure and the attributes and the insights elicited in
each domain area. A pre-print of the article is [available on arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.05644).

[comment]: <> {% cite Gibson:2018 %}

{% bibliography --cited --group_by none %}
