---
title: "ICAD 2019: Call for Papers"
excerpt: "Call for Submission of Papers and Extended Abstracts."
tags:
  - ICAD
  - sonification
  - auditory display
categories:
  - chat
  - public
---

## ICAD 2019 --- Call for Submission of Papers and Extended Abstracts
25th International Conference on Auditory Display
Northumbria University, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK

23--27 June, 2019

<https://icad2019.icad.org>

<https://twitter.com/ICAD2019> 

Theme/Special focus of ICAD 2019: Sonification for Everyday Life.

Digital technology and artificial intelligence are becoming embedded in the objects all around us, from consumer products to the built environment. Everyday life happens where People, Technology, and Place intersect. Our activities and movements are increasingly sensed, digitised and tracked. Of course, the data generated by modern life is a hugely important resource not just for companies who use it for commercial purposes, but it can also be harnessed for the benefit of the individuals it concerns. Sonification research that has hit the news headlines in recent times has often been related to big science done at large publicly funded labs with little impact on the day-to-day lives of people. At ICAD 2019 we want to explore how auditory display technologies and techniques may be used to enhance our everyday lives. From giving people access to what’s going on inside their own bodies, to the human concerns of living in a modern networked and technological city, the range of opportunities for auditory display is wide. The ICAD 2019 committee is seeking papers and extended abstracts that will contribute to knowledge of how sonification can support everyday life.

Important Dates:
- Friday 15th March 2019 - Deadline for submission of full papers.
- Friday 22nd March 2019 - Deadline for submission of extended abstracts.

For details on topics of interest, proposal format, submission instructions, and additional conference information please visit https://icad2019.icad.org/call-for-participation/  

Papers Chair:
Tony Stockman
<icad2019papers@icad.org>

Conference Chairs:
Paul Vickers and Matti Gröhn
<icad2019chairs@icad.org>

About ICAD:
First held in 1992, ICAD is a highly interdisciplinary conference with relevance to researchers, practitioners, artists, and graduate students working with sound to convey and explore information. The conference is unique in its specific focus on auditory displays and the range of interdisciplinary issues related to their use. Like its predecessors, ICAD 2019 will be a single-track conference, open to all, with no membership or affiliation requirements.